[CN-330] Add documentation for persistence, backup, and restore (#28)
hazelcast/hazelcast-platform-operator-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/backup-restore.adoc

= Persistence, Backup and Restore

> :description: Hazelcast supports backing up data to the persistent store and restoring from the cluster data from the backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Persistence allows individual members and whole clusters to recover data by persisting map entries, JCache data, and streaming job snapshots on disk. Members can use persisted data to recover from a planned shutdown (including rolling upgrades), a sudden cluster-wide crash, or a single member failure.
```

hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m

----

. Reapply the Hazelcast resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast-persistence.yaml
----

. Same PVCs will be bound to the new pods:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast -ojsonpath='{.items[*].spec.volumes[?(@.name=="hot-restart-persistence")].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}'

----
+
[source,bash]
----
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2
----

=== Restore Policy

Restore policy can be ajusted by setting `clusterDataRecoveryPolicy` field. Supported
options are:

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```FullRecoveryOnly```
| Does not allow partial start of the cluster

| ```PartialRecoveryMostRecent```
| Allows partial start with the members that have most recent partition table

| ```PartialRecoveryMostComplete```
| Allows partial start with the member that have most complete partition table

| ```ForceStart```
| Deletes all data in the cluster persistence store if cluster recovery fails
|===

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should add more information about Force Start. Like how it works with some hazelcast doc references.

= Persistence, Backup and Restore
:description: Hazelcast supports backing up data to the persistent store and restoring from the cluster data from the backup.

> {description}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Persistence allows individual members and whole clusters to recover data by persisting map entries, JCache data, and streaming job snapshots on disk. Members can use persisted data to recover from a planned shutdown (including rolling upgrades), a sudden cluster-wide crash, or a single member failure.

This topic assumes that you know about Persistence in Hazelcast. To learn about Persistence, see the xref:hazelcast:storage:persistence.adoc[Platform documentation].
```

> == Enable Persistence for Hazelcast

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Enabling Persistence
```

--
You need to enable persistence for Hazelcast to work with backup and restore.

. Create the Hazelcast resource:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-persistence.yaml[]
----
<1> Base directory of the backup data.
<2> Cluster recovery policy. More information can be found in xref:backup-restore.adoc#restore-policy[] below.

> <3> Size of the PVC. *BE SURE* to calculate total size needed beforehand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> Size of the PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) where Hazelcast data is persisted.
+
NOTE: Make sure to calculate the total disk space that you will use. The total used disk space may be larger than the size of in-memory data, depending on how many <<hot-backup, hot backups>> you take.
```

It should be larger than the size of the data in the memory.
Additional backups will also take some storage.

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast.yaml
----

> . Check Hazelcast instances are ready:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that Hazelcast members are ready:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast
----
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
hazelcast-0   1/1     Running   0          2m
hazelcast-1   1/1     Running   0          1m
hazelcast-2   1/1     Running   0          1m

----

. Check Hazelcast PVCs are created:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast
----
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME                                  STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0   Bound    pvc-116b4084-a436-4462-b413-511b77df307b   20Gi       RWO            standard       2m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       1m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       1m
----
--

> == Take a Single Hot Backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[hot-backup]]
== Take a Single Hot Backup
```

--
. Create the HotBackup resource:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup.yaml[]
----

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup.yaml
----

--

== Take Scheduled Hot Backup

You can also take backups on schedule using the `spec.schedule` field.
--
. Create the HotBackup resource with `schedule` field filled:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup-scheduled.yaml[]
----
+
The field needs to take a valid cron expression. Some examples:
+
[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```30 10 * * *```
| On 10:30 AM every day

| ```0, 0, 1,15,25 * *```
| On 1st, 15th and 25th each month, midnight

| ```@monthly```
| Once a month, first of the month, midnight
|===

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup-scheduled.yaml
----
--

> == Restore from HotBackup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Restoring from Hot Backups
```

hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m

----

. Reapply the Hazelcast resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast-persistence.yaml
----

. Same PVCs will be bound to the new pods:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast -ojsonpath='{.items[*].spec.volumes[?(@.name=="hot-restart-persistence")].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}'

----
+
[source,bash]
----
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2
----

=== Restore Policy

Restore policy can be adjusted by setting `clusterDataRecoveryPolicy` field. Supported
options are:

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```FullRecoveryOnly```
| Does not allow partial start of the cluster.

| ```PartialRecoveryMostRecent```
| Allows partial start with the members that have most recent partition table.

| ```PartialRecoveryMostComplete```
| Allows partial start with the member that have most complete partition table.

> | ```ForceStart```

Reviewer: In Platform, force-start must be triggered manually. In K8s Operator, how does the `ForceStart` policy work? 

Are you also able to trigger partial-start manually when you configure one of the `Partial` policies?

Author: The operator detects member crash during the restore startup and do the triggering automatically if `autoStart` is enabled in API. 
I will clarify it with @SeriyBg and @hasancelik (PR is in review) and update it accordingly.

Reviewer 3: @hakanmemisoglu this option won't be supported for `recovery-policy` and will be removed in the ForceStart PR, as we have a separate filed for auto force start

| Deletes all data in the cluster persistence store if cluster recovery fails.
More detail can be found in link:https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.1/storage/triggering-force-start[Hazelcast documentation].
|===

> == HostPath Support for Persistence

Reviewer: This is an option for enabling Persistence. I think it should go under 'Enabling Persistence' and we should add a description to discuss the differences (pros/cons) between using HostPath and PVC.

Author: The reason that I moved it to the end of the page is actually to hide it. We support it but we do not incentivize it. 
@hasancelik What do you think?

Reviewer: What's the use case for it? If we have it, we must have users who want it, and those users will expect a description of it in the right place (enabling persistence).

Reviewer 3: @hakanmemisoglu @hasancelik, maybe it's better to add a note on why this option is not recommended? Since we support this option, I think it's better to just warn the users of consequences but not hide it

Reviewer 2: @JakeSCahill, @hakanmemisoglu is right, `hostPath` option is not a complete replacement for `PVC`. We support this option for some specific use cases so promoting it like replacement of PVC based which is recommended way does not make sense.

Author: Actually, it would be repeating what is mentioned in Kubernetes documentation (which I gave a link to).

hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0   Bound    pvc-116b4084-a436-4462-b413-511b77df307b   20Gi       RWO            standard       2m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       1m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       1m
----
--

[[hot-backup]]
== Triggering a Single Hot Backup
--
. Create the `HotBackup` resource:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup.yaml[]
----

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup.yaml
----

--

== Scheduling Hot Backups

You can also take backups on schedule using the `spec.schedule` field.
--
. Create the HotBackup resource with `schedule` field filled:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup-scheduled.yaml[]
----
+
The field needs to take a valid cron expression. Some examples:
+
[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```30 10 * * *```
| On 10:30 AM every day

| ```0, 0, 1,15,25 * *```
| On 1st, 15th and 25th each month, midnight

> | ```@monthly```

Reviewer 3: Since this isn't a standard cron expression, maybe it's better to list all of the supported options?

Author: I provided a link to the library page.

= Persistence, Backup and Restore
:description: Persistence allows individual members and whole clusters to recover data by persisting map entries, JCache data, and streaming job snapshots on disk. Members can use persisted data to recover from a planned shutdown (including rolling upgrades), a sudden cluster-wide crash, or a single member failure.

Persistence allows individual members and whole clusters to recover data by persisting map entries, JCache data, and streaming job snapshots on disk. Members can use persisted data to recover from a planned shutdown (including rolling upgrades), a sudden cluster-wide crash, or a single member failure.

This topic assumes that you know about Persistence in Hazelcast. To learn about Persistence, see the xref:hazelcast:storage:persistence.adoc[Platform documentation].

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Operator supports two options for enabling Persistence: PVC and `HostPath`. We recommend using PVC, so the examples on this page use this option. If you need to use `HostPath`, see <<hostpath,  HostPath Support for Persistence>>.
```

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast.yaml
----

. Check that Hazelcast members are ready:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast
----
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
hazelcast-0   1/1     Running   0          2m
hazelcast-1   1/1     Running   0          1m
hazelcast-2   1/1     Running   0          1m

----

. Check that Hazelcast PVCs are created:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast
----
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME                                  STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0   Bound    pvc-116b4084-a436-4462-b413-511b77df307b   20Gi       RWO            standard       2m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       1m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       1m
----
--

[[hot-backup]]
== Triggering a Single Hot Backup

> --

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Persistence is enabled for the cluster, you can trigger hot backups, using a `HotBackup` resource.
```

. Create the `HotBackup` resource:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup.yaml[]
----

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup.yaml
----

--

== Scheduling Hot Backups

> You can also take backups on schedule using the `spec.schedule` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can schedule regular hot backups, using the `spec.schedule` field of a `HotBackup` resource.
```

--
. Create the HotBackup resource with `schedule` field filled:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup-scheduled.yaml[]
----
+

> The field needs to take a valid cron expression. Some examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field takes a valid cron expression. For example:
```

+
[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```30 10 * * *```
| On 10:30 AM every day

| ```0, 0, 1,15,25 * *```
| On 1st, 15th and 25th each month, midnight

| ```@monthly```
| Once a month, first of the month, midnight
|===

+
For the full list of the supported expression, please check the link:https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/robfig/cron/v3@v3.0.1#hdr-CRON_Expression_Format[library documentation].

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup-scheduled.yaml
----
--

== Restoring from Hot Backups

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restore a cluster from hot backups, you can reapply the `Hazelcast` resource, and it will have access to the PVCs that contain the persisted data.
```

. Delete the Hazelcast cluster:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl delete hazelcast hazelcast
----

. Check PVCs are still there:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast
----
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME                                  STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0   Bound    pvc-116b4084-a436-4462-b413-511b77df307b   20Gi       RWO            standard       6m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m

----

> . Reapply the Hazelcast resource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Reapply the `Hazelcast` resource:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast-persistence.yaml
----

. Same PVCs will be bound to the new pods:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast -ojsonpath='{.items[*].spec.volumes[?(@.name=="hot-restart-persistence")].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}'

----
+
[source,bash]
----
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2
----

> ==== Optional: Auto Force Start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure Force-Start

If you use the `FullRecoveryOnly` policy, you can configure the Operator to detect failed Hazelcast members and trigger a force-start. The Operator will trigger a force-start only if the cluster is in a `PASSIVE` state.

```

Reviewer: I would move this below 'Choosing a Cluster Recovery Policy' because it is related to a specific recovery policy.

Reviewer: @hakanmemisoglu I unresolved this as I think it's in the wrong place. It is part of choosing a recovery policy.

Author: @JakeSCahill I updated it.

> Additionally, auto force start can be enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable `autoForceStart`:
```

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-autoforcestart.yaml[]
----

> In this case, the operator will detect whether there are failed Hazelcast members

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> and the cluster is in *PASSIVE* mode. If that is the case, it will trigger a force start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> WARNING: Force start is a destructive operation. The cluster will lose data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[[recovery-policy]]
== Choosing a Cluster Recovery Policy

> To decide how a cluster should behave when one or more members cannot rejoin after a cluster-wide restart, you can define a cluster recovery policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decide how a cluster should behave when one or more members cannot rejoin after a cluster-wide restart, you can define one of the following cluster recovery policies:
```

> options are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```FullRecoveryOnly```
| Does not allow partial start of the cluster.

| ```PartialRecoveryMostRecent```
| Allows partial start with the members that have most recent partition table.

| ```PartialRecoveryMostComplete```
| Allows partial start with the member that have most complete partition table.
|===

> == HostPath Support for Persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[hostpath]]
== HostPath Support for Persistence
```

----

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup.yaml
----

== Scheduling Hot Backups

You can schedule regular hot backups, using the `spec.schedule` field of a `HotBackup` resource.
--
. Create the `HotBackup` resource with a `schedule` field:
+
[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hot-backup-scheduled.yaml[]
----
+
This field takes a valid cron expression. For example:
+
[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```30 10 * * *```
| On 10:30 AM every day

| ```0, 0, 1,15,25 * *```
| On 1st, 15th and 25th each month, midnight

| ```@monthly```
| Once a month, first of the month, midnight
|===

+
For the full list of the supported expression, please check the link:https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/robfig/cron/v3@v3.0.1#hdr-CRON_Expression_Format[library documentation].

. Apply the resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hot-backup-scheduled.yaml
----
--

== Restoring from Hot Backups
To restore a cluster from hot backups, you can reapply the `Hazelcast` resource, and it will have access to the PVCs that contain the persisted data.

. Delete the Hazelcast cluster:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl delete hazelcast hazelcast
----

> . Check PVCs are still there:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check that the PVCs are still available:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pvc -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast
----
+
[source,bash]
----
NAME                                  STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0   Bound    pvc-116b4084-a436-4462-b413-511b77df307b   20Gi       RWO            standard       6m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m

----

. Reapply the `Hazelcast` resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast-persistence.yaml
----

> . Same PVCs will be bound to the new pods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. See that the same PVCs are bound to the new pods:
```

+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast -ojsonpath='{.items[*].spec.volumes[?(@.name=="hot-restart-persistence")].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}'

----

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
You should see something like the following:
+
```

[source,bash]
----
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2
----

[[recovery-policy]]
== Choosing a Cluster Recovery Policy

> To decide how a cluster should behave when one or more members cannot rejoin after a cluster-wide restart, you can define one of the following cluster recovery policies. The Operator supports all the policies in the `cluster-data-recovery-policy configuration options. For complete descriptions and advice on choosing a policy, see the xref:hazelcast:storage:configuring-persistence.adoc#policy[Platform documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To decide how a cluster should behave when one or more members cannot rejoin after a cluster-wide restart, you can define one of the following cluster recovery policies. The Operator supports all the policies in the Hazelcast Platform `cluster-data-recovery-policy configuration` options. For complete descriptions and advice on choosing a policy, see the xref:hazelcast:storage:configuring-persistence.adoc#policy[Platform documentation].
```

= Persistence, Backup and Restore
:description: Persistence allows individual members and whole clusters to recover data by persisting map entries, JCache data, and streaming job snapshots on disk. Members can use persisted data to recover from a planned shutdown (including rolling upgrades), a sudden cluster-wide crash, or a single member failure.

Persistence allows individual members and whole clusters to recover data by persisting map entries, JCache data, and streaming job snapshots on disk. Members can use persisted data to recover from a planned shutdown (including rolling upgrades), a sudden cluster-wide crash, or a single member failure.

This topic assumes that you know about Persistence in Hazelcast. To learn about Persistence, see the xref:hazelcast:storage:persistence.adoc[Platform documentation].

The Operator supports two options for enabling Persistence: PVC and `HostPath`. We recommend using PVC, so the examples on this page use this option. If you need to use `HostPath`, see <<hostpath,  HostPath Support for Persistence>>.

== Enabling Persistence
--

> Before you can backup and restore Hazelcast data, you need to enable Persistence in the `Hazelcast` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can back up and restore Hazelcast data, you need to enable Persistence in the `Hazelcast` resource.
```

hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1   Bound    pvc-a7711b6b-dcbf-45cb-9577-8ce6b1892f2f   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2   Bound    pvc-64314d82-da7a-4e38-bd2d-e770a63dc4e8   20Gi       RWO            standard       5m

----

. Reapply the `Hazelcast` resource:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl apply -f ./hazelcast-persistence.yaml
----

. Same PVCs will be bound to the new pods:
+
[source,bash]
----
kubectl get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/instance=hazelcast -ojsonpath='{.items[*].spec.volumes[?(@.name=="hot-restart-persistence")].persistentVolumeClaim.claimName}'

----
+
[source,bash]
----
hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2
----

=== Configuring Force-Start

If you use the `FullRecoveryOnly` policy, you can configure the Operator to detect failed Hazelcast members and automatically trigger a force-start. The Operator will trigger a force-start only if the cluster is in a `PASSIVE` state.

WARNING: The cluster loses all persisted data after a force-start.

> Enable `autoForceStart`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Enable `autoForceStart`:
```

[cols="1,1"]
|===
| ```FullRecoveryOnly```
| Does not allow partial start of the cluster.

| ```PartialRecoveryMostRecent```
| Allows partial start with the members that have most recent partition table.

| ```PartialRecoveryMostComplete```
| Allows partial start with the member that have most complete partition table.
|===

=== Configuring Force-Start

If you use the `FullRecoveryOnly` policy, you can configure the Operator to detect failed Hazelcast members and automatically trigger a force-start. The Operator will trigger a force-start only if the cluster is in a `PASSIVE` state.

WARNING: The cluster loses all persisted data after a force-start.

Enable `autoForceStart`:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes+"]
----
include::ROOT:example$/hazelcast-autoforcestart.yaml[]
----

[[hostpath]]
== HostPath Support for Persistence

You can also use HostPath to enable persistence.

WARNING: HostPath support is discouraged for the production environments for the reasons
mentioned in the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath[Kubernetes documentation]

> WARNING: HostPath support expects the size of the cluster to be equal to the number of Kubernetes nodes
> and pods are distributed to the nodes equally. You can manage it by setting `topologySpreadContraints` field.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
WARNING: HostPath support expects the size of the cluster to be equal to the number of Kubernetes nodes
and pods are distributed to the nodes equally. You can manage it by setting `topologySpreadContraints` field described xref:scheduling-configuration.adoc[here].
```

I am not sure if my usage of `xref` is correct. I also wanted to give `#topology-spread-constraints` but not sure how to do it. @JakeSCahill, do you know how?

Reviewer: That looks right, you can add anchors to the end like so: `xref:scheduling-configuration.adoc#topology-spread-constraints[]`.

I'd suggest using descriptive text for the link - something like 'You can manage how pods are distributed among nodes by setting the `topologySpreadContraints` field, which is described in xref:scheduling-configuration.adoc#topology-spread-constraints[Scheduling Hazelcast Pods]'.

Reviewer 4: Sure, I will change it to that. Thanks :smile:

> . Create the Hazelcast resource with the `clusterSize` equals to the number of Kubernetes nodes

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Create the Hazelcast resource with the `clusterSize` equal to the number of Kubernetes nodes
```

hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-0 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-1 hot-restart-persistence-hazelcast-2
----

=== Data Recovery Timeout

To choose a data recovery timeout, you can use `dataRecoveryTimeout`.

> The field takes an integer value representing the timeout in seconds.

Reviewer 2: To choose a data recovery timeout, you can use `dataRecoveryTimeout`. The field takes an integer value representing the timeout in seconds and uses this value to set [validation-timeout-seconds, data-load-timeout-seconds](https://docs.hazelcast.com/hazelcast/5.1/storage/configuring-persistence#global-persistence-options) Hazelcast Persistence options.

Reviewer 2: done --> https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-platform-operator-docs/pull/31/files
